Now we're gonna get
into Testing WordPress for Accessibility.
This is where you can have a lot of fun.
There are automated tools via WordPress plugins,
that I think we talked briefly about those.
The Access Monitor, Siteimprove.
There are some other ones
that I don't have much experience with,
but certainly, we could take a look at those.
We can take a look at Access Monitor right away.
We can check that out, see how that works.
I have a very small Tenon subscription,
so I can plug into that.
Let's see if I can get that going with my...
my site here.
So it's just a matter of getting into the plugins,
and adding a new plugin.
So when I upload it because I think I've downloaded it here.
Access Monitor, this is the latest one,
and I'm gonna install now.
Let's hope everything goes well.
Looking good so far.
All right, and now you must enter a Tenon API key
to use Access Monitor.
Okay, so, let's go to Tenon.
You're gonna see my API key, I'll change it later.
But let's get in here, let's see,
yup, that's what I wanna use.
And gonna grab this API key, and plug it in here.
Let's see.
And see, I have Prevent inaccessible posts
from being published.
Oops, I didn't copy the API key.
Copy, I'm just gonna copy it
the old fashioned way and select it,
'cause I think that maybe that was my problem.
There we go.
So I can update my settings and I have my API key
added into there.
This says Prevent inaccessible posts from being published.
That's really kind of cool.
So, I can update my settings and when I go to use this now,
I can run this.
So I don't think this will get to my installation,
so I'm gonna look at how I can get a live link here and...
Let's see if I can, yeah, here's a live link to my site.
One time report, so I can create an Accessibility Report.
I can choose some options.
So these are the default settings,
so I'm just gonna leave them like that.
And I can store the test results at Tenon.io.
So it looks like...
Report Name, I'm gonna say WP Training
Test Run 1.
Okay, so I can create an accessibility report
and it's gonna go and test these pages.
I don't know how long this is gonna take,
so I'm hoping I can
go away from this and then run something
on my content as I'm testing it.
But, let's look at add a new post.
Let's see if it's going to test out
whether or not I can...
So that, oh.
Access Monitor isn't compatible with the block editor.
So I need to install the Classic Editor, which I'm doing
and I'm activating that.
Now I can add a new post.
There we go.
So, let's see...
My inaccessible post.
Let's see what this catches.
So I'm gonna do a heading level five.
This shouldn't be here.
And some paragraph text.
And a Hhading level one.
And then, let's do an image here, so...
Oh, Add Media.
Media Library, we're gonna add one of these
that doesn't have alt text,
just has a title.
Olympus Digital Camera.
Insert into post.
Okay, and...
It says, "No manual accessibility tests
"have been run on this post,"
Let's see what happens if I do Publish.
Is it going to test it?
No, it didn't, okay.
Might not be able to do it.
Oh, okay, I gotta...
Now I can update that.
Ah, Posts and Pages, okay.
Update Settings and now...
I'm gonna, let's see.
So I'm gonna update,
Check Accessibility, you can check it right there.
And score is 0%.
Post may not be published.
Post does not meet the minimum accessibility requirements.
Show the results.
I've added something
that might be a heading here.
Of course, I added the headings,
not in a hierarchical manner and...
I don't have landmarks in this instance.
I'm not exactly sure why that's coming up,
but it's preventing me from publishing it.
And I have an empty paragraph element, it looks like,
because the image doesn't have an alt text on it.
Notice that the title didn't get added.
That was there, but it's considered empty markup.
So if I add the alt text to this,
which is City Intersection with Traffic
and I update that and if I...
Let's change these things a little bit.
Let's make this heading two
and this, instead of a heading one,
I'm gonna make it a heading three.
Now, if I update it, it's gonna run the checks again.
And Post was Updated.
So, it actually published it because it..
I think it worked fine.
Let's see, Check accessibility.
Score is 100%, post may be published.
So that's great.
So this access monitor tool
works in conjunction with Tenon, with the API
and it will send data to Tenon,
and then Tenon will check it.
And I will look and see do I have anything
where I have anything in my history yet?
So I have some things that were Page title not found.
Not exactly sure if these...
Let's view the results, but...
So it did run some results and it stored them in Tenon,
but I also have them, I think, in these...
So they found 364 issues for this page.
I'm not exactly sure
if that is right.
But we'd have to go and look at all those,
but it found a lot of issues,
right with that one default page.
Here, let's look at Access Monitor.
We can look at accessibility reports
and I think we have the report here
that shows the issues.
And you can look at what the source is for it.
It'll tell you what that is, or what the xPath is.
So if you're a developer and using this,
you can go back and take a look at this and fix it.
So I have
a number of link issues, it looks like
that might need to be addressed, or...
CSS-generated content found.
And what that is.
You basically get a chance to see all of this information
here in your WordPress site, using this particular tool.
I would imagine that the Siteimprove tool
would operate in a similar way
because it talks to its home base
with its testing service and scanning service
and then probably reports back what the issues are.
So that would be something to consider.
So, just Coversite improved a little bit.
I don't have that installed.
I don't have an account with them,
so I can't show you what that looks like,
but well worth checking out and seeing
if that helps your content authors,
but also during the in-development.
Any other plugins that you know about
that you like or that you use to do testing
directly within the WordPress interface?
I think there's one called W-A-11-Y by Rachel Cherry.
It's getting a warning
that it hasn't been updated in a while so I don't know
how up-to-date it is in terms of testing the content
or fixing things, but that's another option.
Let me see if I can
look for that.
So The Web Accessibility Toolbox
is what this one is called by Rachel Cherry.
She's a fixture in the WordPress community,
as well as in accessibility, as well.
Now this, because it hasn't been updated in a while,
it may not run well with the latest versions of WordPress,
so about two years ago, WordPress version 3
or higher is what they were saying.
Tested up to 4.9, so it's close.
There are plenty of plugins that do run well,
they just haven't been tested for 5.
So you would just need to check it out.
This, apparently, uses the WAVE tool
and HTML CodeSniffer to evaluate WordPress
from inside it, so that could be very interesting to see.